Hi, I'm Mike North, I'm a principal
staff engineer at Stripe, and
welcome to Enterprise-Scale TypeScript.
This course is a great course for
those looking to lead, or help lead,
a team of developers who
are working on a sizeable codebase.
What does the word enterprise
mean in the course title here?
Well, just think of it as a project
that's grown large enough that no
one person could sort of keep their
entire codebase in their head.
Remember all of the different conventions
and nuances in all of the different areas.
Once it grows beyond a certain size,
you can't have the person
that knows everything,
no one person can hold that all.
Another thing that sort of indicates
you've reached enterprise scale is you
have multiple teams that are involved
in the evolution of a project.
So sometimes when
a company gets big enough,
they'll have sort of an infrastructure
team that deals with sort of the nuts and
bolts of how the project is built and
how things are tested.
And maybe they're also worried
about performance a little bit.
And then you have product teams that
are looking to add features to something.
And when you have multiple teams
working in one codebase like that,
you've taken on more scale.
And there are new challenges that
start to emerge as a result of that.
And the third thing is,
you know you've reached kind of a sizable
project when you get the sense that
if everybody does their own thing and
if people are left without
helpful guardrails,
the codebase will become inconsistent and
unmanageable, right?
If everyone can add their
own dependencies at a whim,
or if you end up with lots of
duplicate code all over the place,
things can become a little bit gnarly.
And it's tough to solve that problem
once you already have that problem.
And inevitably,
you will have some degree of that
problem when you have a sizable project.
But that's how you know you're not dealing
with a small project anymore, right?
So in the spirit of that, we're gonna
talk about a couple things we're
sort of optimizing for when we think
about larger scale TypeScript projects.
Productivity is really important, right?
If a build is broken,
if nobody can work on the project, and
you have 30 or 50 or 100 or
several hundred people
contributing to a thing,
that's a big deal to stop progress for
all of the developers,
that's pretty costly.
When you're trying to sort of put helpful
guardrails in place around your project,
you have to think about bouncing opinions
about how things should be done.
But not be so rigid that the developers
that are contributing to a project,
they feel like they have no flexibility,
right?
You can't take away artistic license.
Sometimes when things are so
constrained and so
opinionated, people feel like they have
to wrestle against the constraints.
As opposed to them sort of
being there in a helpful way,
but you sort of still
have room to maneuver.
Enterprises care a lot about designing for
a long shelf life, right?
Rewrites are incredibly expensive,
and projects evolve over time, right?
It's very common for
a large-scale project to sort of exist for
a period of time,
where new technologies come and go.
And maybe a web framework
becomes no longer workable, and
you sort of have to adopt a new
framework in pieces across a project.
We wanna make sure we design for that,
because with the large-scale project,
that's a massive investment for
a company sometimes.
Not just in terms of the work
it took to get there, but
just the number of people operating on it,
it's much more sizable.
And then finally,
managing complexity is a big deal.
Because when you have more code,
more contributors,
all of the sort of combinations
of different things start
to become interesting.
And so, the ability to sort of have
encapsulated chunks of an app that you can
sort of build and test on their own.
And then compose those together
to make a larger project.
That lets you have nice boundaries around
things and nice testable units of code,
not just everything lumped
together in one big project.
So the course goals, so we're going to
create a library together from scratch.
It's gonna be right inside
the course repo, and
we're gonna go through where the repo
is and how to install it in a moment.
But we're gonna create it from
scratch because I'd like to share
kind of how I approach setting
something like that up.
With a minimal set of libraries
that gets us linting, testing,
API docs, all of the basics for a library.
Without having to opt into a bunch of sort
of heavyweight, high-complexity tools.
So we'll go through that process.
We'll migrate a non-trivial JavaScript
codebase from JavaScript to TypeScript.
In this case, it's going to be like
a simplified version of Slack,
where right now the current state
in the repo, it's all JavaScript.
There are missing @types packages,
if you're familiar with what those are.
I have a particular process
that I'm gonna teach you for
going through that migration.
And there are a couple
deliberate things that we end up
fixing each step along the way.
So we can appreciate the kind of things
you would take on in that process.
We'll look at how to keep pace with
new TypeScript compiler versions as
they come out.
So TypeScript does not
follow semantic versioning.
And it's understandable,
maintaining a project like TypeScript,
where people depend on existing
behavior of the compiler.
And there's no denoting, like, well, this
is a public API thing that you're seeing,
versus this is just behavior
that happens to work this way.
So every middle digit release
of TypeScript comes with
a list of breaking changes.
In practice, this doesn't hurt so
much, right?
But the larger your project gets and
the more of TypeScript's
capabilities you start using,
the greater your exposure is to breakage.
So it's important to
know how to keep pace,
or how to know when a breaking
change is coming in.
And how to address it, or
decide that you wanna stay on
a particular compiler version.
We'll develop an in-depth
understanding of strictness.
This means both your TSConfig and
a linter,
which is ESLint that we're gonna be using.
How can we sort of start in a very
flexible mode, and then incrementally
ratchet up strictness, so that we're not
trying to sort of flip a big switch.
And say we're going from very flexible,
almost any piece of
JavaScript would work mode.
To I wrote this from
the beginning in TypeScript, and
I have all the settings cranked
up as high as they can go.
There is value in being able to
sort of slowly ratchet it up.
So we'll talk about all
of those options there.
I'm gonna skip that bullet point up here,
cuz we're not gonna get to that.
But we'll use Yarn's built-in support for
workspaces.
So anyone here work on a monorepo before,
where you have multiple
packages in a project?
Anyone use Lerna for a monorepo?
So with modern Yarn, you don't really
need Lerna for all of the things anymore.
I find I only reach for Lerna if I need
to version packages automatically, right?
In lockstep sort of step up
the versions of everything.
If you're just building an app and
you wanna have just various chunks of code
that sort of operate like libraries
within the app's Git repo,
Yarn does everything you need, and
we're gonna explore how that works.
How you can start to take chunks of an app
and sort of factor it out into a little
library-like thing,
which is treated like a dependency,
but it's all sort of wired
up in your one Git repo.
So what should you already
know when taking this course?
Well, first, you should have a good
understanding of modern JavaScript.
I strongly recommend taking
the TypeScript Fundamentals course.
That will make sure you know, I'm gonna
be throwing around types today, and
I'll explain what they're doing.
But I'm not gonna explain the why or
necessarily go too deep into the syntax.
So you should understand that.
You should understand how to manage
dependencies with a tool like NPM or Yarn.
You should conceptually
understand how linting works.
We'll go through every single
step of setting up ESLint.
But we won't go in depth into
sort of what a linter does and
why you would need to include one
in your app, those kinds of things.
You should understand semantic
versioning and the concept of how
the number of a dependency might change,
in order to communicate
a level of risk that people
are taking as they take in a package.
And then finally, you should be familiar
working with some basic shell scripts.
We're gonna be doing a little bit
of work in NPM scripts, right?
The scripts object in package.json,
and it's helpful to know how to and
two scripts together, that kind of thing.